FCEUX SDL 2.1.3 SDL README
By Lukas Sabota (punkrockguy318)

Table of Contents
1.  Requirements
2.  Installation
3.  Compile-time options
4.  GUI
5.  Run-time options
6.  FAQ
7.  Contact

1. Requirements
	* libsdl1.2 - It is strongly recommended that you upgrade to the latest
		version of sdl (1.2.14).  There are known audio problems with
		versions <= 1.2.13. 
		* libsdl1.2debian-esd is recommended on ubuntu/debian systems
	* scons - Required to build fceux.
	* libgtk2.0 (OPTIONAL) - it's recomended that you install version >= 2.18

2. Installation
	Fceux is installed with the scons utility.  To compile, run:

	scons

	To compile and install to /usr/bin, run (as root):

	scons install

3. Compile-time options
	You can enable and disable certain features of fceux at build time. 
To edit these options, edit the SConstruct file in this source directory.  The
default options here will be fine for most users, but power users may want to
tweak these.

4. GUI
	There are currently two options for a GUI with the SDL build.  

	The first and currently more flexible is gfceux.  Gfceux should be included with this source in a seperate directory.  Check that directory for installation instructions.  Gfceux is a GTK launcher for fceux that allows you to configure controls and tweak options.
	
	The other option is the GTK GUI support in fceux.  BE WARNED that this is currently experimental and probably has some bugs right now.  You can enable this by changing the GTK2 value in the SConstruct to 1.

5.  Run-time options
	TODO

6.  FAQ

	Q.  I'm having issues with my sound!
	A.  First of all, for the best sound quality be sure you are using SDL 1.2.14 or later.  Versions 1.2.13 and earlier are known to have problems with fceux!  Next, try different SDL audio drivers to see if this makes any difference.  You can do this by using this command before running fceux:

	export SDL_AUDIODRIVER=driver

	where driver is either:
		pulse for pulseaudio
		alsa for ALSA
		oss for OSS
		esd for ESD

	ESD provides crystal clear playback on my machine.

	There are sound options that you can tweak at runtime through command line switches:

	-soundq x 		internal sound quality hack value (0 off)
	-soundrate x    	sound rate (sane values: 28000 48000
	-soundbuffersize x 	(in ms)  sane values (30, 50, 100, 120)

	* Running fceux through esddsp is known to fix some audio issues with pulseaudio
	
7.  Contact
	If you have an issue with fceux, report it in the sourceforge bug tracker (see fceux.com).  If you would like to contact me personally, e-mail me at <LTsmooth42 <at> gmail.com>.  You can also check the developers out at #fceu on irc.freenode.net.	
